Add SQL routine call for submissions (#565)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-11-07-routines.md

---
layout: post
title: "Share your best Trino SQL routine"
author: "Martin Traverso, Dain Sunstrom, David Phillips, Manfred Moser"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/trino-sql-routine.png
show_pagenav: false
---

We want to see the best [SQL routines]({{site_url}}/docs/current/routines.html)
you can write, feature them as [examples in the
documentation]({{site_url}}/docs/current/routines/examples.html), and send you
some goodies as a reward!

<!--more-->

With the recent [Trino 431
release]({{site_url}}/docs/current/release/release-431.html) we shipped a
feature that has been awaited by many Trino users for a long, long time. [SQL
routines]({{site_url}}/docs/current/routines.html) are an easy way to define our

> own procedural, custom function. All users of your Trino instance can then use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
own procedural, custom functions. All users of your Trino instance can then use
```

> own procedural, custom function. All users of your Trino instance can then use

Reviewer: Maybe also...
```suggestion
own procedural, custom function. All users on your Trino instance can then use
```

that function in their queries and enjoy the new feature to simplify their
queries.

> The new process of simply writing a routine in your client tool in SQL, replaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new process of writing a routine in your client tool in SQL replaces
```

the old way of having to create a custom plugin in Java, compiling it, and

> getting the binary deployed in your cluster. Time to using a function went from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
getting the binary deployed in your cluster. The time it takes to use a custom function has gone from
```

hours to minutes!

Our documentation includes details for all the supported statements:

* `BEGIN`
* `CASE`
* `DECLARE`
* `FUNCTION`
* `IF`
* `ITERATE`
* `LEAVE`
* `LOOP`
* `REPEAT`
* `RETURN`
* `SET`
* `WHILE`

With the memory connector and the Hive connector supporting routine storage, you
can use `CREATE FUNCTION` and `DROP FUNCTION`, so that everyone using the
cluster has access to your routines.

> The unit tests and our examples documentation contain a number of routines that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unit tests and our example documentation contain a number of routines that
```
Link to the documentation, and maybe even unit tests on GitHub?

Author: Not the tests .. but sure.. the docs

> scratch the surface of what is possible. Now we are looking for you to help us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scratch the surface of what is possible. Now, we are looking for you to help us
```

improve the documentation and maybe even find some bugs. So here is what we are
asking from you:

* Send us your best SQL routine.

>   * Create a pull request to the [examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Create a pull request to add to the [example
```

    documentation](https://github.com/trinodb/trino/blob/master/docs/src/main/sphinx/routines/examples.md)

>     that adds a new section and mention [Manfred (mosabua)](https://github.com/mosabua)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    with a new section, and request a review from [Manfred (mosabua)](https://github.com/mosabua)
```

  * Alternatively, [email the details](mailto:manfred@starburst.io) and submit a
    [CLA](https://github.com/trinodb/cla) separately.
* Explain the use case, what the routine does, and maybe also how it works.
* Include the full statement for the `CREATE FUNCTION` definition and an example
  invocation.
* Add any necessary tables or data so we can test the function.

We plan to present the ten best submissions at [Trino Summit 2023]({% post_url
2023-09-14-trino-summit-2023-announcement %}), write a blog post, add them to
the documentation, and [Starburst](https://www.starburst.io/) will send you a
cool reward.

Also, if you have more great Trino usage to talk about and share, we would love

> to see your speaker proposal for Trino Summit.

Reviewer: Link?
